we get kids who've never had friends
maybe they just have never been given
any opportunities so when they come here
you just see this huge growth you see
their self-esteem go up it's like all of
a sudden they fit in someone and it's
just it's wonderful to watch that
transformation take place it's not your
average school with just 30 students who
come from all over the state the Oregon
School for the Blind in Salem is a
special institution with some remarkable
teachers my name is Joyce Lansford I'm a
teacher while some of this learning goes
on in doors much happens beyond the
classroom the walls during all the
seasons of the year the focus is on
helping students learn the skills
they'll need to live an independent life
besides working in the classroom my
other job is orientation and mobility
instructor and I love the job to me is
so critical for these kids to be able to
get out into the community and be able
to access the community and that's what
I teach I teach them how to ride the bus
I teach them how to advocate their needs
perfect okay now you got yourself a
burrito she's a good teacher say that
you be independent in she gives you
opportunities at times you never would
expect you would have she can make me
laugh and cries she taught me how to
overcome she's a great teacher and you
know what
no she just keeps on going well I really
really like everyone who works here it's
kind of like a big family and we all
support each other we're all working for
the same goal you know make these kids
as independent as they're capable
you